feat: blog and launch post (#67)
drand/website: docs/blog/2020-08-10-drand-launches-v1.0.md

Drand started as a research project in the [DEDIS lab at EPFL](http://dedis.epfl.ch/), and the first network was launched as an experiment in 2019. After nearly a year in the research stage, it was time to transform drand into a production-level public service. Over the past few months, we have rolled out a host of new changes and improvements to the service. We've also deployed drand's largest network, the [League of Entropy](http://leagueofentropy.com/).

We believe that drand can be a foundational Internet core service for randomness, one that everyone online can access and use in the same way as other foundational protocols, like DNS or NTP.

## Drand v1.1

Drand launched v1.0 in July and updgraded to v1.1 in August, rolling out many new features and architecture improvements. Chief among them are:

### 3 layered architecture

> The network architecture was split into three layers, offering enhanced protection to the drand nodes while increasing scalability, with a distribution network utilizing CDNs, [libp2p Gossipsub](https://blog.ipfs.io/2020-05-20-gossipsub-v1.1/) relays, and [Twitter bots](https://twitter.com/loebot).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The network architecture was split into three layers, offering enhanced protection to the drand nodes while increasing scalability, with a distribution network utilizing [HTTP CDNs](http://api.drand.sh/public/latest), [libp2p Gossipsub](https://blog.ipfs.io/2020-05-20-gossipsub-v1.1/) relays, a [Tor hidden service](http://drandeokfd5aaz3hr4hfk7mlr23vc63boxrpr44ertumtbousmdgbhad.onion/public/latest), and a [Twitter bot](https://twitter.com/loebot).
```

---
title: Drand launches v1.0, and the League of Entropy becomes a production service!
summary: Welcome to the brand new website for the drand project! Drand is now in production, providing publicly verifiable randomness as a foundational internet service.
date: 2020-08-10
tags:
    - Release
    - Major
    - League of Entropy
---

> ![Placeholder launch image](/images/social-card.png)

Reviewer: ^ labelled as a placeholder. It seems a little redundant to have a drand logo as a cover image in the drand website. It seems we have the opengraph image set so the social card will be used for SNS previews anyway.

Author: It is a placeholder until this issue is resolved: https://github.com/protocol/design-shop/issues/344

Reviewer: Missed that one, thanks!

### New features

* **Round-to-timestamps guarantees** with a catch-up functionality where, after a downtime, nodes quickly generate randomness to be up-to-date.
* The ability for a node to **download a full copy of an existing chain prior to joining the group**.
* A new curve ([BLS12-381](https://electriccoin.co/blog/new-snark-curve/)) for **improved security** and **compatibility with major blockchains**.
* Solid client implementation with provider **failover** and **optimizations** in Go and JS.
* A broadcast channel enabling more **robust set-up ceremonies**.

### Deployment monitoring

A set of tools is now used to monitor the various drand nodes and alert operators to incidents. A [status page](https://drand.statuspage.io/) that shows both system status and any planned maintenance is now available for the network. We have also established a network observatory to measure network performance and reliability from the perspective of the end-user, with vantage points around the world.

### Drand’s specification & security model

The drand protocol now has a [full specification](/docs/specification/) and a documented [security model](/docs/security-model/). 

> ### Security audit
> 
> The drand implementation underwent an end-to-end security audit by SigmaPrime, and all relevant issues were resolved.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Security audit

The drand implementation underwent an end-to-end security audit by SigmaPrime, and all relevant issues were resolved.

```

We have nothing to announce here.

With this new governance model, we've established the rules and requirements that the League of Entropy needs in order to maintain a high level of network security, ensure that the League operates effectively, and establish the right conditions for ongoing improvement to the production quality of drand. We've also laid down the procedures for adding new members to the League of Entropy in an equitable, fair, and decentralized way. All told, we think these changes set up the drand project for continued success as we find new users and implement new features.

## New website & logo

We built this website to be the drand community's primary repository for the growing body of documentation about drand. We also want this to be the new home for the drand community of developers, operators, and end-users. We'll use it to host our blog and share important updates and news about the project.

> In addition to a new site, we also created a logo for the drand project, which you can see at the top of this post or [here](LINK TO LOGO ASSETS FOLDER) for a logo kit. 

Reviewer 2: Not sure where this `LINK TO LOGO ASSETS FOLDER` thingy is.

Reviewer 3: I sent this to Alan in Slack to house it in the appropriate place: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xQxONjpVU6DCIf7JhcfrFgejfExHe-NR0qNCuB-zaZQ/edit?usp=sharing

* The ability for a node to **download a full copy of an existing chain prior to joining the group**.
* A new curve ([BLS12-381](https://electriccoin.co/blog/new-snark-curve/)) for **improved security** and **compatibility with major blockchains like Filecoin and Ethereum 2.0**.
* Solid client implementation with provider **failover** and **optimizations** in Go and JS.
* A broadcast channel enabling more **robust set-up ceremonies**.

### Deployment monitoring

A set of tools is now used to monitor the various drand nodes and alert operators to incidents. A [status page](https://drand.statuspage.io/) that shows both system status and any planned maintenance is now available for the network. We have also established a network observatory to measure network performance and reliability from the perspective of the end-user, with vantage points around the world.

### Drand’s specification & security model

The drand protocol now has a [full specification](/docs/specification/) and a documented [security model](/docs/security-model/). 

### Security audit

> The drand implementation underwent an end-to-end security audit carried out by SigmaPrime. We are excited to share the report with you [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fCy1ynO78gJLCNbqBruzHx7bh72Tu-q2/view?usp=sharing) in which you can learn about the findings and the approach used. Working with the SigmaPrime team was absolute delight, they were throrough and very communicative throughout the entire audit, which enabled the drand team to quickly solve the issues as they were found.

Author: ```suggestion
The drand implementation underwent an end-to-end security audit carried out by [SigmaPrime](https://sigmaprime.io/). We are excited to share the report with you [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fCy1ynO78gJLCNbqBruzHx7bh72Tu-q2/view?usp=sharing) in which you can learn about the findings and the approach used. Working with the SigmaPrime team was an absolute delight, they were thorough and very communicative throughout the entire audit, which enabled the drand team to quickly solve the issues as they were found.
```
